# Module 11: Integrating Azure Solution Components using Messaging Services

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Messaging Components to Facilitate Communication Between Azure Resources

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Service Bus Namespace

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create Service Bus Namespace

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Service Bus** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Service Bus** result.

5.  In the **Service Bus** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Create namespace** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter a globally unique name.

    b.  In the **Pricing tier** field, select the **Standard** option.

    c.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    d.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Create new** option.

    e.  In the **Resource group** section, enter the value **MOD11SBLA** into the empty field.

    f.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

7.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create a Service Bus Queue

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **Service Bus Namespace** you most recently created.

4.  In the **Service Bus** blade, locate the **Entities** section on the left side of the blade and click the **Queues** link.

5.  In the **Queues** pane, click the **+ Queue** button at the top of the pane.

6.  In the **Create queue** popup, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **messages**.

    b.  Leave all other fields set to their default values.

    c.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  Wait for the new queue to be successfully created before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 4: Get Service Bus Connection String

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **Service Bus Namespace** you most recently created.

4.  In the **Service Bus** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade and click the **Shared access policies** link.

5.  In the **Shared access policies** pane, locate the single default policy named **RootManageSharedAccessKey** and click the policy link.

6.  In the **SAS Policy** popup that appears, locate and record the value in the **Primary Connection String** field. This value will be used later in this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Service Bus namespace and recorded a connection string to access queues in the namespace.

## Exercise 2: Create Logic App

#### Task 1: Create Storage Account

1.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

2.  Enter the text **Storage Account** into the search field and press **Enter**.

3.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Storage Account - blob, file, table, queue** result.

4.  In the **Storage Account - blob, file, table, queue** blade, click the **Create** button.

5.  In the **Create storage account** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter a globally unique name.

    b.  In the **Account kind** section, select the **Storage (general purpose v1)** option.

    c.  In the **Performance** section, select the **Standard** option.

    d.  In the **Replication** list, select the **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)** option.

    e.  In the **Secure transfer required** section, select the **Disabled** option.

    f.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    g.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option.

    h.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD11SBLA** option.

    i.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    j.  Click the **Review + create** button.

    k. Click **Create* button.

6.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

7.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

8.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

9.  In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **Storage Account** you most recently created.

10. In the **Storage account** blade, click the **Blobs** link in the center of the blade.

11. In the **Blob service** blade, click the **+ Container** button at the top of the blade.

12. In the **New container** dialog that appears, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **messageoutput**.

    b.  In the **Public access level** list, select the **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)** option.

    c.  Click the **OK** button.

#### Task 2: Create Logic App

1.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

2.  Enter the text **Logic** into the search field and press **Enter**.

3.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Logic App** result.

4.  In the **Logic App** blade, click the **Create** button.

5.  In the **Create logic App** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **ServiceBusWorkflow**.

    b.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option.

    d.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD11SBLA** option.

    e.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    f.  In the **Log Analytics** section, select the **Off** option.

    g.  Click the **Create** button.

6.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Build Logic App Steps

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **ServiceBusWorkflow Logic App** you most recently created.

4.  In the **Logic App** blade, you will see the default *Logic App Designer* screen. Scroll down and click the **Blank Logic App** option in the **Templates** section.

5.  In the **Logic Apps Designer** pane, you will see an open dialog for creating an initial action (trigger).

6.  In the **Choose an action** dialog that displays, perform the following actions:

    a.  Enter the value **Service Bus** into the search field.

    b.  In the search results, select the **Trigger** named **Service Bus - When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)**.

    c.  In the **Connection Name** field on the next pane, enter the value **ServiceBusConnection**.

    d.  In the list of *Service Bus namespaces*, select the namespace you created earlier in this lab.

    e.  In the list of policies, select the **RootManageSharedAccessKey** policy.

    f.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  In the **When a message is received in a queue (auto-complete)** step that is created, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Queue name** list, select the **messages** option.

    b.  In the **Interval** field, enter the value **30**.

    c.  In the **Frequency** field, enter the value **Second**.

8.  Click the **+ New Step** button in the designer. Click the **Add an action** button to open the dialog for creating an action.

9.  In the **Choose an action** dialog that displays, perform the following actions:

    a.  Enter the value **Storage Blob** into the search field.

    b.  In the search results, select the **Action** named **Azure Blob Storage - Create Blob**.

    c.  In the **Connection Name** field on the next pane, enter the value **StorageConnection**.

    d.  In the list of *Storage accounts*, select the account you created earlier in this lab.

    e.  Click the **Create** button.

10. In the **Create Blob** step that is created, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Folder path** field, enter the value **/messageoutput**.

    b.  In the **Blob Name** field, enter the value **@concat(triggerBody()?\['MessageId'\], '.txt')**.

    c.  In the **Blob content** field, enter the value **@string(decodeBase64(triggerBody()?\['ContentData'\]))**.

11. At the top of the **Logic Apps Designer** blade, click the **Save** button to persist your workflow.

#### Task 4: Validate Logic App using Node.js

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to install the **azure** package in Node using NPM:

    ```shell
    npm install azure
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to open the interactive node terminal:

    ```shell
    node
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to import the **azure** module in Node:

    ```js
    var azure = require('azure');    
    ```

5.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new variable for your Service Bus' connection string replacing the placeholder with the value of your connection string recorded earlier in this lab:

    ```js
    var connectionString = '[Service Bus Connection String]';    
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[Service Bus Connection String\]** placeholder with the connection string for your **Service Bus** instance. For example, if your connection string is **Endpoint=sb://testdbns.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=kXUiFkzSg20TrhUhhyNlqjndV/zKALu1S+nikPqIO8U=**, your command will look like this:

    ```js
    var connectionString = 'Endpoint=sb://testdbns.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;SharedAccessKey=kXUiFkzSg20TrhUhhyNlqjndV/zKALu1S+nikPqIO8U=';    
    ```

6.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new client to connect to Service Bus:

    ```js
    var serviceBusService = azure.createServiceBusService(connectionString);    
    ```

7.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to send a message to Service Bus using the client.

    ```js
    serviceBusService.sendQueueMessage('messages', { body: 'Hello World' }, function(error) { console.log(error) });    
    ```

8.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group* link.

9.  In the **MOD11SBLA** blade, select the **Storage Account** you most recently created.

10. In the **Storage account** blade, click the **Blobs** link in the center of the blade.

11. In the **Blob service** blade, click the **messageoutput** container in the list of containers.

12. Observe the newly created blob in your container.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a logic app that is triggered by queue messages from Service Bus.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD11SBLA** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD11SBLA --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
