# Module 12: Monitoring and Automating Azure Solutions

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Configuration Management Solutions to Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Compute Resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Deploy a Linux VM

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

5.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

7.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

8.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

9.  Select the **linux.json** file.

10. Click the **Open** button.

11. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

12. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Create new** option.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, enter the value **MOD12AUTO** into the empty field.

    d.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    e.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    f.  Click the **Purchase** button.

13. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Deploy Azure Automation Account

1.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

2.  Enter the text **Automation** into the search field and press **Enter**.

3.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Automation** result.

4.  In the **Automation** blade, click the **Create** button.

5.  In the **Add Automation Account** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **LinuxAutomation**.

    b.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD12AUTO** option.

    d.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US 2** location.

    e.  In the **Create Azure Run As account** section, select the **No** option.

6.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a simple Linux VM using an ARM template and an Azure Automation account.

## Exercise 2: Configure Azure Automation DSC

#### Task 1: Import Linux PowerShell DSC Modules

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD12AUTO** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD12AUTO** blade, select the **Azure Automation** account you most recently created.

4.  In the **Azure Automation** blade, locate the **Shared Resources** section on the left side of the blade and select the **Modules gallery** link.

5.  In the **Modules gallery** pane, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Search** field, enter the text **nx** and press **Enter**.

    b.  In the search results, select the **nx** module in the search results.

6.  In the **nx** blade that appears, click the **Import** button at the top of the blade.

7.  In the **Import** blade that appears, click the **OK** button.

8.  Wait for the import process to finish before moving on with the lab. You will see a message update in the **Module** blade indicating that the module was successfully imported.

    > **Note**: This process can take up to ten minutes.

9.  Return to the **Azure Automation** blade.

    > **Note**: You may need to scroll left in your browser to find this blade.

#### Task 2: Create Linux DSC Configuration

1.  Back in the **Azure Automation** blade, locate the **Configuration Management** section on the left side of the blade and select the **State configuration (DSC)** link.

2.  In the **Configurations** tab, click the **Add** button at the top of the pane.

3.  In the **Import** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Configuration file** field, click the *blue folder* button to the right of the field.

    b.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

    c.  Select the **lampserver.ps1** file.

    d.  Click the **Open** button to close the dialog and return to the **Import** blade.

    e.  In the **Description** field, enter the value **LAMP Server configuration using PHP and MySQL**.

    f.  Click the **OK** button.

4.  Back in the **State configuration (DSC)** pane, select the newly created **lampserver** item in the list of configurations.

5.  In the **Configuration** blade, click the **Compile** button at the top of the blade. In the confirmation dialog, click **Yes** to proceed with compiling the configuration.

6.  Wait for the compilation task to finish. You will see the status of the latest compilation task in the **Compilation jobs** section of the **Configuration** blade.

    > **Note**: You may need to close and re-open the blade to see the latest compilation status. This blade does not refresh automatically.

7.  Return to the **Azure Automation** blade.

    > **Note**: You may need to scroll left in your browser to find this blade.

#### Task 3: Onboard Linux VM

1.  Back in the **Azure Automation** blade, locate the **Configuration Management** section on the left side of the blade and select the **State configuration (DSC)** link.

2.  In the **Nodes** blade, click the **Add** button at the top of the blade.

3.  In the **Virtual Machines** blade, select the single virtual machine that was created in the **MOD12AUTO** *Resource Group*.

4.  In the **Virtual machine** blade, click the **Connect** button at the top of the blade.

5.  In the **Registration** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Node configuration name** list, select the **lampserver.localhost** option.

    b.  Leave all other options set to their default values.

    c.  Click the **OK** button.

6.  Wait for the connection process to complete before moving on with this lab.

7.  Return to the **Azure Automation** blade.

    > **Note**: You may need to scroll left in your browser to find this blade.

8.  Back in the **Azure Automation** blade, locate the **Configuration Management** section on the left side of the blade and select the **Nodes** link.

9.  In the **Nodes** blade, validate that your **Virtual Machine** has a status of **Compliant**.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a PowerShell DSC configuration and applied the configuration to a Linux virtual machine.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD12AUTO** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD12AUTO --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
